README.md, before:

# survey-gorilla 🦍
Like SurveyMonkey, but with the muscle of LLMs and dynamic analysis.

AI-powered survey simulator with real-time dietary insight extraction via API.
![](demo.gif)

## Contents
* [Project Intent](#project-intent)
* [System Architecture](#system-architecture)
* [Sample API Usage](#sample-api-usage)
* [How to run](#how-to-run)
* [Development Plan](#development-plan)
---

## Project Intent
Automate survey analysis using AI to:
- Simulate human-like conversation surveys using ChatGPT.
- Extract insights via API endpoints.
- Demonstrate Django and OpenAI integration with deployable results.

**Example Implementation**:
- Survey topic: "Top 3 favorite foods"
- Key insight: Identify vegetarian/vegan preferences from responses.

## System Architecture
Here is a high level diagram illustrating what the system is composed of:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[User/Browser] -->|GET /api/insights| B[Insights Service]
    B -->|Query survey data| C[(SQL Database)]
    E[Surveys Service] -->|Conduct surveys| D[OpenAI<br>ChatGPT]
    E -->|Save survey responses| C
    subgraph G[Django Backend]
        B
        C
        E
    end
    G -->|Deployed on| F[Render]
```

## Sample API Usage

Request
```
GET /api/insights/conversations?diet=vegan,vegetarian
```

Response
```json
[
  {
    "id": "df0195c7-45be-4ab3-9b7a-08d123abcxyz",
    "diet_type": "vegan",
    "favorite_foods": ["tofu", "kale", "lentils"],
    "created_at": "2025-05-26T12:34:56Z"
  },
  {
    "id": "a7b49a11-2f61-4933-82b0-fd1c009fdcde",
    "diet_type": "vegetarian",
    "favorite_foods": ["cheese", "avocado", "mushrooms"],
    "created_at": "2025-05-26T12:35:01Z"
  }
]
```
To fetch all conversations, simply omit the `diet` query parameter.

## How to run
This project runs fully containerized using Docker Compose.

1. Clone the repository and go to the project root:
   ```
   git clone git@github.com:<your_username>/survey-gorilla.git
   cd survey-gorilla
   ```

2. Create a `.env` file at the project root with the following:
   ```
   SECRET_KEY=your-django-secret-key
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
   POSTGRES_DB=surveydb
   POSTGRES_USER=surveyuser
   POSTGRES_PASSWORD=surveypass
   ```
   No need to install PostgreSQL locally. The database is containerized and configured via docker-compose.yml.


3. Start the app:
   ```
   docker-compose up --build
   ```
   Once ready, the app is available at `http://localhost:8000/api/insights/conversations`.


4. Optional: Run tests with coverage report, and other dev tools:

   Use `poetry run` here because these tools are listed in `pyproject.toml` as dev dependencies.
   ```
   poetry run docker-compose exec web pytest --cov
   poetry run ruff check
   poetry run pylint applications/
   poetry run flake8 applications/
   poetry run mypy applications/
   ```

## Development Plan
1. Local Django setup with PostgreSQL
2. OpenAI integration for food preference chatbot
3. Simulation engine for 100 AI conversations
4. API endpoint for dietary analysis
5. Basic authentication layer
6. Azure deployment with Docker

A more detailed plan can be viewed in the [SurveyGorilla project](https://github.com/users/sharbeldahlan/projects/4)'s Kanban board.

Commit message:

Add Future Development section to README

README.md, after:

# survey-gorilla 🦍
Like SurveyMonkey, but with the muscle of LLMs and dynamic analysis.

AI-powered survey simulator with real-time dietary insight extraction via API.
![](demo.gif)

## Contents
* [Project Intent](#project-intent)
* [System Architecture](#system-architecture)
* [Agile Workflow](#agile-workflow)
* [Sample API Usage](#sample-api-usage)
* [How to run](#how-to-run)
* [Future Development](#future-development)
---

## Project Intent
Automate survey analysis using AI to:
- Simulate human-like conversation surveys using ChatGPT.
- Extract insights via API endpoints.
- Demonstrate Django and OpenAI integration with deployable results.

**Example Implementation**:
- Survey topic: "Top 3 favorite foods"
- Key insight: Identify vegetarian/vegan preferences from responses.

## System Architecture
Here is a high level diagram illustrating what the system is composed of:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[User/Browser] -->|GET /api/insights| B[Insights Service]
    B -->|Query survey data| C[(SQL Database)]
    E[Surveys Service] -->|Conduct surveys| D[OpenAI<br>ChatGPT]
    E -->|Save survey responses| C
    subgraph G[Django Backend]
        B
        C
        E
    end
    G -->|Deployed on| F[Render]
```
## Agile Workflow

All development was tracked using a Kanban board for clarity and progress.

👉 [View the SurveyGorilla Kanban board](https://github.com/users/sharbeldahlan/projects/4)

## Sample API Usage

Request
```
GET /api/insights/conversations?diet=vegan,vegetarian
```

Response
```json
[
  {
    "id": "df0195c7-45be-4ab3-9b7a-08d123abcxyz",
    "diet_type": "vegan",
    "favorite_foods": ["tofu", "kale", "lentils"],
    "created_at": "2025-05-26T12:34:56Z"
  },
  {
    "id": "a7b49a11-2f61-4933-82b0-fd1c009fdcde",
    "diet_type": "vegetarian",
    "favorite_foods": ["cheese", "avocado", "mushrooms"],
    "created_at": "2025-05-26T12:35:01Z"
  }
]
```
To fetch all conversations, simply omit the `diet` query parameter.

## How to run
This project runs fully containerized using Docker Compose.

1. Clone the repository and go to the project root:
   ```
   git clone git@github.com:<your_username>/survey-gorilla.git
   cd survey-gorilla
   ```

2. Create a `.env` file at the project root with the following:
   ```
   SECRET_KEY=your-django-secret-key
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
   POSTGRES_DB=surveydb
   POSTGRES_USER=surveyuser
   POSTGRES_PASSWORD=surveypass
   ```
   No need to install PostgreSQL locally. The database is containerized and configured via docker-compose.yml.


3. Start the app:
   ```
   docker-compose up --build -d
   ```
   Once ready, the app is available at `http://localhost:8000/api/insights/conversations`.


4. Optional: Run tests with coverage report, and other dev tools:

   Use `poetry run` here because these tools are listed in `pyproject.toml` as dev dependencies.
   ```
   poetry run docker-compose exec web pytest --cov
   poetry run ruff check
   poetry run pylint applications/
   poetry run flake8 applications/
   poetry run mypy applications/
   ```

## Future Development

1. Support for follow-up questions in simulated conversations.
2. Enhanced analysis: sentiment scoring for food preferences.
3. Extending the models to create many surveys.
4. An API for creating mutli-topic survey conversations.
5. Fine-tuning dietary classification logic for broader diet types.
